User Story: Application Form API Development
Epic

Application Form Management API

User Story 1 — GET API to Fetch Application Form

Title: Fetch Application Form Details

As a frontend application or external system,
I want to retrieve application form details using a GET API,
So that users can view or review submitted application information.

Acceptance Criteria
API should support fetching application form details by Application ID.
API should return application data in JSON format.
API should return HTTP 200 for successful retrieval.
API should return HTTP 404 if the application is not found.
API should validate request parameters.
API response should include:

Application ID
Applicant Name
Email
Phone Number
Application Status
Submitted Date
Form Fields/Data
API should handle authentication/authorization if required.
API response time should be within acceptable limits (e.g., < 3 seconds).
Example Endpoint

GET /api/application/{applicationId}
Sample Success Response
{
  "applicationId": "APP12345",
  "applicantName": "John Doe",
  "email": "john.doe@example.com",
  "phoneNumber": "9876543210",
  "status": "Submitted",
  "submittedDate": "2026-05-18",
  "formData": {
    "address": "Chennai",
    "qualification": "B.Tech"
  }
}

User Story 2 — POST API to Submit Application Form

Title: Submit Application Form

As an applicant,
I want to submit my application form through a POST API,
So that my application details are stored successfully in the system.

Acceptance Criteria
API should accept application form data in JSON format.
Mandatory fields should be validated.
API should create a new application record in the database.
API should return HTTP 201 when application is successfully created.
API should return validation errors with HTTP 400 for invalid input.
Duplicate submissions should be handled appropriately.
API response should include generated Application ID and submission status.
API should securely handle sensitive data.
Audit logs should be maintained for submissions if applicable.

Example Endpoint
POST /api/application
Sample Request
{
  "applicantName": "John Doe",
  "email": "john.doe@example.com",
  "phoneNumber": "9876543210",
  "address": "Chennai",
  "qualification": "B.Tech"
}
